I've been getting so many asks for go to
market help.
>> With AI, it's just intensified because
[music]
you have 10 players pursuing the same
market opportunity and so your ability
to actually bring the product to market
to differentiate yourself from the
competition has become more
strategically important than it was
previously.
>> I had Jenna Ael on the podcast recently.
One of her tips is you don't want to be
focusing on here's the pain and problem
we're solving and instead focus on
here's how you will be better than your
competitors. 80% of customers buy to
avoid pain or reduce risk [music] as
opposed to increase upside, which is a
good thing for startup founders to
understand. We all love to talk about
the art of the possible, everything
we're going to enable in the future, but
that's often really a sale that's going
to resonate with another founder.
Everybody else, particularly
enterprises, you're avoiding the risk of
not making your revenue target next
quarter.
>> I've heard a lot about how you think
about go to market as a product. We buy
a lot of things because of how we feel
about them. The experience that you have
of being [music] sold to will
increasingly actually differentiate a
company and [music] drive buying
decisions if products are only different
at the merger. [music] And so then you
really want to create a customer buying
journey that feels like very unique
experiences. [music]
>> Something I've heard from so many people
you've worked with is that your
superpower is building a sales or that
doesn't feel like a sales or to
engineers. The litmus test I have always
given my sales team is if you are an
account executive in my org and I put
you in front [music] of 10 engineers at
our company, it should take them 10
minutes to figure out you aren't a
product manager.
Today my guest is Gan Grosser. Gan was
chief product officer at Stripe where
she built their very early sales team
from the ground up. She's currently COO
at Versell where she oversees marketing,
sales, customer success, revenue ops,
and field engineering. Gene has built
world-class go to market teams at
multiple unicorns and has advised dozens
of companies on doing the same. In our
conversation, we go deep on what a
world-class go to market team looks
like, including what the heck is go to
market, the rise of the goto market
engineer and how this role is already
enabling her team to operate 10 [music]
times faster, a bunch of very specific
tactics to level up your go to market
skills, [music] a primer on
segmentation, how to think about your
goto market process like a product, her
favorite go to market tools, her hot
takes on PLG and sales comp and sales
hiring, [music]
and so much more. If you are looking to
get smart on the latest and greatest in
go to market thinking, this episode is
for you. A huge thank you to Claire
Hughes Johnson, Kate Jensen, and James
Deiet for suggesting topics for this
conversation and Kelly Schaefer for the
connection. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get an entire year free
of a ton of incredible products
including Devon, Lovable, Repid, Bolt,
NAD, Linear, Superhum, Dcript, Whisper
Flow, Gamma, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,
Magic Patterns, Raycast, Shapeyard D,
Mob, and Hand, Stripe Atlas. Head on
over to lennisnewsletter.com and click
product pass. With that, I bring you
Jean Grosser after a short word from our
sponsors. This episode is brought to you
by Data Dog, now home to EPO, the
leading experimentation and feature
flagging platform. Product managers at
the world's best companies use Data Dog,
the same platform their engineers rely
on every day to connect product insights
to product issues like bugs, UX
friction, and business impact. It starts
with product analytics, where PMs can
watch replays, review funnels, dive into
retention, and explore their growth
metrics. Where other tools stop, Data
Dog goes even further. It helps you
actually diagnose the impact of funnel
drop offs and bugs and UX [music]
friction. Once you know where to focus,
experiments prove what works. I saw this
firsthand when I was at Airbnb, where
our experimentation platform was
critical for analyzing what worked and
where things went wrong. And the same
team that built experimentation at
Airbnb built EPO. Beta do then lets you
go beyond the numbers with session
replay. Watch exactly how users interact
with heat maps and scroll maps to truly
understand their behavior. And all of
this is powered by feature [music] flags
that are tied to real time data so that
you can roll out safely, target
precisely, and learn continuously. Data
Dog is more than engineering metrics.
It's where great product teams learn
faster, fix smarter, and ship with
confidence. Request a demo at data
hq.com/lenny.
That's data dogq.com/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history, I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality, and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
>> Jean, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me, Lenny. What I want
to get out of this conversation by the
end of this to basically have this
conversation be the thing that we send
people when they're like I want to get
better at go to market. I'm trying to
figure out what to do in market. We send
them this versus having to hire someone
for a lot of money and and usually they
can't find amazing people because
they're all snatched up.
>> Yeah.
>> So let me start with just the basics.
When people hear the term go to market,
what does that mean? What does that
encompass?
>> I think there are two answers to this.
Often what people think of is sort of
the t tip of the spear of what drives
revenue, which is marketing and sales.
For me, I think of it as any function
that is going to touch a customer or
make a dollar. Um, and actually my
remmit at Verscell is that. So that
includes marketing, sales, uh, all of
your technical sales roles like sales
engineers or, uh, post sales platform
architects is what we call them at
Verscell. It's customer success, it's
support, it's partnerships. And the
reason I say that is uh my experience
throughout my career has been that those
functions often have this vend diagram
strategy where marketing is pursuing one
thing. It overlaps with what sales is
pursuing but not perfectly, which also
overlaps with what support is pursuing
but not perfectly. Examples of this
would be slightly different uh uh
slightly differing segmentation
frameworks etc. And so one of the things
I think you're going to want to see more
in this particular moment is that that
become a really integrated life cycle in
particular because I think we're going
to see a lot of the functions of go to
market get redefined. So we've gone
through a period of like hyper
specialization in go to market. Uh you
know depending on how you count them
there are you know I think somebody
quoted like 17 different uh roles within
go to market these days. And I
hypothesize that a lot of those are
going to start to collapse. And so if
you think of go to market more
holistically, I think you can kind of go
back to what are the jobs to be done
from making a customer prospect aware of
of your product all the way through to
you know high LTV five years on the
platform fully wallto-wall and you're
going to want to map that out and
orchestrate it the way you would think
about that within your own product.
>> Awesome. We're going to go through that
whole cycle of go to market, but so is
it safe to say just for most companies
that may that are especially starting
out when they say go to market that
mostly is sales and then there's
marketing as a maybe a smaller fraction
of that and then as you become more
advanced and grow customer success plays
into a tech sales things like that.
Yeah, that's probably where most start
um you know is getting sales or frankly
just because a lot of companies also
start PLG you might actually start with
marketing and then you're layering in
sales when it's time to do the sales
assisted and ultimately salesled
portions. So I think it can depending on
your product and your initial target
market it can either mean marketing or
sales or a combination of those two.
>> Awesome. So essentially it's like how
the term go to market tells you what
we're talking about. It's how do you
take your product to market, get people
aware of it, using it, sticking with it?
>> Yep, absolutely.
>> What is most changed in the world of go
to market over the last few years?
You've done this for a long time at
Google at Stripe. You built the first
sales team. Now you're doing that over
cell. What's changed most in the skill
and art of go to market?
>> There are a number of things. So when
consumption-based business models
started, I think you saw go to market
shift into being meaningfully more
consultative because often that first
land was the very beginning of the
journey and represented a very small
percent of what you were ultimately
going to do with that customer. And so
you had to go from being transactional
to a lot more relationship based. You
had to more deeply understand what that
customer was trying to do so you could
align that ultimately to your product. I
think that has uh played out that much
more with an AI because right now
everyone knows they need to change but
they don't necessarily know exactly what
they need to change to whether that's
their customerfacing product or their
internal productivity and workflows. And
so I think you're seeing a lot more of
go to market orgs leaning into the art
of the possible best practices helping
you actually think things through as if
they were a consultant. And so one of
the things you see uh you know more of
right now is for deployed engineering
which on some level is kind of a rebrand
of professional services
um but kind of not and a big part of
that is hey how do I actually get into
your environment ride alongside you
better understand what you're trying to
do and then help you actually bring the
technology to life and and learn a lot
along the way. Um, often you're not only
making that customer successful, but
you're then taking all of that back to
your product and engineering uh,
organization to figure out, okay, what
was generalizable that we ought to build
into our offering versus what is
something that ultimately is going to be
more of a a professional service in the
fullness of time. So, I think that has
been a a a biggie is is actually just
like really getting embedded with your
customer. And then unsurprisingly, um, I
think bringing AI to bear on the sales
process is another big one. And so
you've seen the rise in probably the
last like 18 to 24 months um of the go
to market engineer
um which uh you know different different
folks define slightly differently but it
it's kind of bringing one technical
prowess to bear on go to market in
general so you can have a lot better
tooling data use etc and then two
increasingly bringing AI um to bear as
well to rearchitect um your workflows um
and also So uh make it so it's easier to
have a personalized experience with
customers but do so at scale.
>> Amazing. Okay, let's follow the thread
on this uh go to market engineer.
>> Yeah.
>> So what was it like before and what are
what are these engineers doing at
companies?
>> So I think uh maybe like an interesting
story to tell. Uh when I when I was at
Stripe
uh we went to launch an outbound um SDR
function. uh so outbound prospecting and
Stripe always ran lean. Uh the company
at that time had an operating principle
which was efficiency is leverage and so
if you looked at the sales organization
I was running most companies out there
probably would have had 30 SDRs and I
was going to get four.
So you know there's no way I was going
to do the typical SDR um you know
approach and be successful. And so we
thought to ourselves okay what can we
do? We'll be super data driven. And so
we went and we started building project
Rosland. Rosland is the scientist who
originally mapped uh DNA. And what this
was was effectively a company universe.
So you can think of this as like a
massive database. Every row uh was a
different company on the planet. And
every column was an attribute about that
company that would help you sell to them
uh in a more targeted fashion. So at
Stripe, an example would be like knowing
that their um their business model was a
marketplace was super helpful because
that would mean you wanted to sell
Stripe Connect versus Vanilla Payments.
And so the goal was basically, hey, can
we create a Mad Libs, you know, where I
will come up with uh sort of a a
predefined email template, but 80% of it
will be fill-in- thelank based on the
different attributes um of that that
customer, right? So if they're this
industry or this business model, then
pull this customer reference, this value
prop, you know, send it to this um uh
persona, not that. And we were trying to
do this in 2017. And uh it was very hard
and didn't actually totally work.
[laughter]
Um our ability to like the false
positive rate when and we worked deeply
with data science like just it just
never really got there. And now that
we're literally redoing here at Verscell
as we speak and it actually works. Um,
and that's because you can bring AI to
bear on it. Um, and so what's different
is we now I have a data scientist just
like I did back in 2017, but I have a go
to market engineer. Um, whereas before I
just had someone in systems that was
helping me configure Outreach or
Salesoft and my go to market engineer is
helping me build an agent. um where
we're coming up with okay well what's
the human workflow that you would have
done and then how do you encode that um
using burcell workflows as an example
you know in actual code that's both
deterministic and and less so um where
an agent's going out and and trying to
replicate what a human might have done
um to produce that fill-in- thelank mad
lips
>> I love the ambition of that project what
is this like eight years ago
>> yes it's such a I love the big thinking
there we're going to map the entire
universe of companies and then here's
how we sell to them and then just I'm
trying to picture doing that without AI.
It's like crazy to imagine trying that
without AI and now it's like so much
simpler.
>> Well, the thing that's amazing about
that just to geek out on it a second. So
um I I was working on that with a bunch
of folks at Stripe um on my team
obviously and a gentleman named Ben
Salman um who went on to go to Zoom Info
and then actually recently just founded
a goto market startup that is basically
sort of productizing that concept of a
company universe and then layering AI on
it on top of it and ultimately his view
is actually you'll AI will get to the
point that you won't have to do outbound
prospecting because it will just sort of
company and product match
Um, so it's it's fun to sort of see back
in 2017 some of the folks doing that now
work at OpenAI, they work at Anthropic,
they also are doing GTM. You've got him
starting, you know, a totally AI native
GTM um company. And then, you know, here
I am at Rousell trying to do the same.
>> Okay. So, what's cool is this is an
emerging role and emerging skill that I
don't think a lot of people have
recognized as something that is
happening.
>> Yep. So, one example I'm hearing of what
this role does is they automate outbound
emails essentially and outbound
outreach. They figure out they write
workflows and agents that figure out
here's the company to go after. Here's
how we message them. Does that end up
being kind of like an email that's
customdesigned and written for this
prospect?
>> That's one version. So, so it's it's
broader than that really. Um, basically
the the full remit of GTMEN will be to
go through each of the different
functions within go to market and break
down all the different workflows that
they do and then turn those into agents
um where you know AI is better placed
than the human um to do that task. So
right now we started with uh actually
inbound and are now moving to outbound
because um that workflow is most legible
and by legible I mean you can basically
write it down. It's relatively
replicable, mostly deterministic, so
it's more likely that AI will do it
well. And we actually built the agent
and then we keep a human in the loop.
But from there, we're starting to look
at outbound. And with an outbound, we're
starting more at the lower end of the
market where you tend to, you know, have
slightly less customization because
there's a single decision maker at the
company. But I think it will take a
while before we're able to really do
that in a very large enterprise there.
or we might use an agent for research
but maybe not all the way to actually
send a message and that's just within
the prospecting function. So other
places that we're looking at this would
be um for install based sales. So again
there it's a little bit more
deterministic because you've got awesome
internal data on what a customer is and
isn't using. What's the next best
action? What's the thing they should get
most value from? So that's where we're
starting to map, hey, what does that
ideal workflow look like? But basically,
you want to get to a state where as long
as I've been in sales, they, you know,
release these annual reports that help
us all benchmark ourselves relative to
one another. And one of the stats is
what percent of time do your sellers
actually spend in front of customers?
And you know, for the 20 years I've been
in sales, it's always been somewhere
around 30 to 40%. So the minority of
time is actually talking to other
humans. And I think we're getting to a
point where with layering in agents,
ideally we finally get salespeople to a
point where they're actually spending
70% of their time interacting with
humans and we can get the research, the
followup, the things that are a little
bit more, you know, wrote and don't use
the entirety of your human capacity uh
done by an agent and then sort of
unleash you to uh go deeper with your
customers. I love that this is such a
great example of where AI is
contributing in a very meaningful high
ROI way taking on all this work that
people that you had to hire say 50 SDRs
as you described to do and now you could
do with a lot more. So it's a really
cool example of leverage that AI uh
gives you. One thing that I know a lot
of people think about when they hear
this is okay I'm going to get more of
these really bad emails trying to pitch
me on stuff and just like this isn't
going to work. I can tell this is AI.
What have you learned about how to do
this where people actually receive
emails that actually convert and do
well?
>> Our processes all always have human in
the loop and uh so basically where we'll
start is we take a go to market engineer
and we have them shadow the highest
performing individual in that function.
And so you can go and you shadow an SDR
and you can see oh wow they've got seven
tabs open. they're looking up the you
know person on LinkedIn they're reading
about the company they're doing chatbt
on this they're you know looking in this
database to get these sets of attributes
um and so that's how you sort of inform
the initial work uh workflow and then
what we do is we let the agent make a
call so and the specific example with um
with inbound right you have to determine
whether or not you think the lead is
likely to be qualified and then you have
to determine what to say to it and so
we'll let the agent make those two calls
It ultimately then does some deep
research, pulls in a bunch of
information from our databases and
crafts a response. But we have a human
review all of those and actually hit
send. Now for us, we had 10 SDRs doing
this inbound workflow and now we just
have one that is effectively QAing the
agent. The other nine we deployed on
outbound. So we got to move them up the
value chain. At some point I think we'll
get to a place where we feel like hey
you know the the human reviewer is um
saying yes enough of the time that we
feel confident that these will be
onbrand targeted etc. But right now uh
we're still trying to train um the agent
and it you know it incorporates feedback
on what we choose to reject edit etc.
>> And you shared that it's already having
a lot of impact like you said you had
you said 10 SDRs and now one can do the
job of 10. Yes.
>> Wow.
>> Um, yeah. And we, so before we did that
move, I mean, the other thing that's
just incredible about this is the person
who built the lead agent was a single
GTM engineer. He spent maybe 25 30% on
his time of his time on this. Uh, it was
6 weeks before we felt confident going
from 10 to one. So, it wasn't like this
was a multi-quarter process. It actually
moved super quickly. Um, so, uh, and
then again now we just sort of keep that
agent manager sort of working with the
agent to get it to a point where we say,
"Hey, we're ready to roll." Um, and
actually throughout the process, we also
tracked all of the KPIs that you
typically would hold an SDR accountable
to. So, we were looking at our lead to
opportunity conversion rate. We're
looking at the number of touches it
takes, the time to convert. Uh, and
basically what we were able to do is
hold that lead to opportunity conversion
rate flat. Um, so the agent is as good
as our humans were, but it's actually
condensed the number of touches it takes
to convert because it's so much quicker
at responding relative to leads
inevitably sitting in the queue or
coming in at night time and no one, you
know, can get to it. That that type of
deal. Um, so, uh, that's sort of, you
know, when we knew it was, uh, ready to
pull nine people off and shift them into
outbound. That's incredible. Okay,
that's interesting. So, you shifted them
to outbound. What I love about this is
this SDR that is now doing this is, as
you said, doing the things they enjoy
more. They're talking to customers more.
They're not doing all this kind of top
offunnel row work.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't want to get into whole like jobs
AI discussion, but uh there's always
been this talk about AI SDRs basically
replacing SDRs. It feels like that's one
thing where everyone's like this is 100%
going to be AI in the future. Uh what
I'm hearing here is it gives one a steer
a lot more leverage and obviously you
still need people running the show. T
thoughts there just like do you think AI
will replace all this at some point and
then I don't know you don't need
salespeople.
>> I think on prospecting it can replace a
fair amount because the average SDR
wasn't doing overly sophisticated
research in the first place. Um, so
where I I think the last part to go as I
mentioned will be in deep enterprise
prospecting where you know you can be at
multiple layers in an org chart. You've
got to pick between business lines. You
got to triangulate those. Um, but uh I I
do think for the things that are more
repetitive that often don't take that
much time to learn and get ramped AI
will be good at that. And in my view, no
one like graduated from college and was
like, "Yes, I just went to college for
four years to become an SDR." It was
more, okay, that's where you are forced
to start. But I think the average STR
could have gone straight into outbound
or straight into an SMB closing role.
Uh, and so basically what we're just
doing is shifting folks into something
that uses more of their full capacity
right out of the gates rather than sort
of the uh, you know, the the forcing
function of working your way up the
totem pole.
>> Awesome. Since a lot of people listening
to this aren't sales people, don't have
a lot of background in sales, we've used
this term SDR. There's also the term AE.
Can you just help people understand what
is an SDR? What do they do? What's an
AE? And then what's kind of the role
above?
>> Sure. So SDR is typically in charge of
generating pipeline. So they're meant to
talk to prospective customers and uh get
them to a point where it is worth
investing time to run them through a
sales process. So you t typically have
two types of an STR. You have an inbound
one. So, this is where people come to
your website, they fill out contact
sales, they'll be the first call uh to
make sure that it's actually worth a
more expensive account executive to go
and run a sales process. Or you then
have outbound. So, this is where when
you want to grow faster than your
inbound demand, they will go out and at
this point you probably have a point of
view on where you think you have product
market fit. And so they will target that
part of the market and try to drum up
interest from folks who weren't
otherwise raising their hand saying,
"I'd like to talk to you." So that's
sales development, basically pipeline
generation. Account executives are
closers. So it's their job to take
somebody from, okay, hey, I'm interested
in learning about your solution. I have
a legitimate problem. I potentially
could make a decision to I now believe
that your product is the best in the
market and for me and I'm willing to pay
for it. And then account executives
depending on uh the segments that your
company sells into, eg small business,
mid-market, enterprise, etc. They may
work their way up the food chain from
selling to a smaller company like an SMB
or a startup. Those tend to be a little
bit more of a transactional sale. You
often have a single decision maker to
then going into a mid-market or
commercial role where now maybe you have
an economic buyer like somebody in
finance and a technical buyer like
somebody in engineering to getting into
enterprise where you know you now have
procurement and you have committees and
10 people have to weigh in and um you
know you've got to help them figure out
how to derisk the fact that they're
probably migrating from something. So
much more complicated um coordination
effort to sell. That was extremely
helpful. So, SDR pipeline generation AE
closer. Such a simple way of thinking
about it. Okay, this is great. Uh, going
back to the GDM engineer, a few
questions for people that may want to
try this at their company. What scale do
you think it makes sense to start hiring
for this role, having someone automate
the go to market process?
>> What's interesting about this is it will
force companies to be more rigorous
about their sales process early. So
often startups when they go from founder
sales to say I'm going to have my first
salesperson whether that's an actual you
know account executive who has prior
sales experience or your general athlete
wicked smart who's going to go figure it
out you know often founders will just
say okay sales is showing up and talking
to people isn't you know isn't that what
I just did for the last couple years but
actually sales is is more than that it's
a skill just like writing code as a
skill or building a financial model as a
skill. It's about discovery. So asking
all the right questions that help you uh
identify challenges and pain,
willingness to pay, um you know, etc. Uh
and then going through a process to
handle those objections and showcase,
you know, where you add enough value
such that somebody ultimately wants to
hand over some money. So often, you
know, startups will get particularly
ones with strong product market fit to
pretty significant scale without really
having a replicable process. And you
can't really apply go to market
engineering unless you actually have a
point of view on what best practice
should look like. And so I think
basically this is going to force folks
to have more of a playbook out of the
gates. What's working? What's not? Can I
document it? Do I have content for the
different parts of the sales process?
And then you know once you do that which
you know maybe 10 people is a good size
and scale for that ostensibly you know a
GTM engineer can come in and turn that
into an agent. You could also argue that
if you know you're a founder who wants
to bring in a general athlete profile
and that person is technically minded
that you could have a hybrid AE GTM
engineer who figures out what their best
practice is and then tries to turn that
into an agent. you know, that's riding
alongside them and making them more
effective as well. So um you know I I
don't know that I have a point of view
yet on what's the optimal size and scale
but I forever have given founders the
advice that uh it's you often want to
bring in revenue operations which is
basically the analytical arm of sales
earlier than you think because having
data having process is actually what
gives you insights as a founder into
what is and isn't working and so I would
argue just like it's a good idea to have
that sooner later. Increasingly, it'll
probably be a good idea to have GTM
engine and be looking to bring agents to
bear on your process uh at the outset.
>> While we're on this topic, just a quick
tangent. The advice for hiring your
first salesperson that I usually hear is
wait until you're around a million in
ARR when you have a repeatable process
you can teach someone. Anything there?
Is that does that seem right? What would
you what would you recommend?
>> Yeah, I think that seems about right. Um
I do think uh as a founder you want to
stay deeply connected to customers and
get it to a scale and get it to a point
where you know you use the word there's
some repeatability there. I think that's
one of the things that not all founders
get right is founders are incredible
salespeople right they convinced a VC
angel investors to fork over a bunch of
money so clearly they're going to
inspire people to buy. But if you're
getting to a million in ARR and the set
of customers you have look nothing like
one another you still have very much
like an evangelist sale very much
founder sale versus if you can say hey I
now have an ICP here or ideal customer
profile eg something you can write down
you know we are good uh our product fits
with uh startups with less than 100
employees who are typically building SAS
applications right something like that
um then they're probably ready to hand
over the reigns. Uh and then what
founders have to remember is to actually
hand over the reigns. So, you know, you
got to enable the person who comes in
what is it that you know you're doing
effectively? What's your content? What
are the discovery questions you're
asking? How are you handling objections?
Um so you can transition that knowledge,
but also don't hand them over entirely,
right? You want to stay connected to the
customer because you still have a fair
amount of R&D to do to figure out where
are you, you know, where is the product
next going to resonate, where are you
getting, you know, stock as you scale,
etc.
>> To close the loop on the go to market
engineer, what's the profile of the
ideal go to market engineer, maybe your
first
>> what we have found works really well is
somebody who uh does have go to market
experience. So at Verscell, our first
three go to market engineers were
actually sales engineers. So Verscell
hires very technical uh sales engineers.
All of them were front-end developers
before they decided they wanted to get
into sales. And so we just said, "Hey,
three of you, congrats. You're now
founding members of our GTME team." Uh
and the thing that works well there is
uh you know, you do understand aspects
of uh what is good GTM? uh what does a
process look like? It's been really
interesting actually. Um so the
gentleman who runs GTM for me um we were
going through you know this this lead
agent and QAing it uh and you know so
I'm going and I'm looking at some of the
responses that we've ultimately uh had
had the lead agent send and realized oh
I wouldn't have sent that. Um, and
that's because I have 20 years of sales
experience and we model the lead agent
off, you know, our best person, but our
best person who has two years of sales
experience. So, it actually is important
to understand the art and the science of
sales and how you bring best practice to
bear. So, either you've done it and so
you know some best practice or you're
going to geek out on sales, read a bunch
of books, learn a thing or two, um, you
know, and and try to incorporate some of
those into into your agent development.
>> That is really interesting. So, come
from the sales side, not from the
engineering side. And I imagine this is
such a cool opportunity for sales people
to do something completely different and
move closer to engineering.
>> Yeah, I I mean, we're having a lot of
fun with it at uh at Rurell in
particular. We basically get to be
customer zero. So everything that we're
building with agents, we're building on
Versell's AI cloud. So you know these
agents are now have multiple steps that
they go through. So we're using
Verscell's uh workflow SDK and um
workflow offering. We um you know use
the AI gateway to call the different
models that we use to do deep research
um or uh other enrichment that we do.
Uh, so for us it's it's great because we
basically sort of bang on everything the
engineering team is is building and get
to go be a discerning customer before we
actually get it out the door to real
customers.
>> What a fun time to be alive. I could
tell the the fun that you guys are
having just the way you describe it.
Stripe handles the massive scale and
complexity of many of the world's
fastest growing enterprises including
78% of the Forbes AI50 and more than
half of the Fortune 100. Enterprises
like Atlassian, Figma, and Urban
Outfitters use Stripe to create fully
branded and customized checkout pages
with access to more than 125 global
payment methods. There's a reason I've
had more leaders from Stripe on this
podcast than any other company. They
know how to build great products that
scale and that people love. And Stripe
is a lot more than payments. They've
also got a category leading billing
solution and a highly optimized checkout
experience built specifically to
increase your checkout conversion. Join
the ranks of industry leaders like
Salesforce, OpenAI, and Pepsi that are
using Stripe to grow faster and to grow
the world's GDP. Learn how Stripe can
help your business grow at stripe.com.
zooming out a little bit in terms of you
mentioned tools, some tools that you
use. I'm curious just what are kind of
the state-of-the-art tools within the
goto market stack that you love that
you'd recommend?
>> Well, so I'm going to have an
interesting answer to this. Um, uh, so
I'll give you one, and it's not
state-of-the-art per se, although that I
don't don't mean that, uh,
disparagingly. It's just that it's been
around for for a while now, and and a
lot of folks use it. But I think Gong
has gotten just meaningfully more
interesting in the last year. Um, and
then second half my question I will get
into. I think the calculus on build
verse buy is changing. So all right,
Gong. Uh, Gong is incredible because you
can run agents against it now. Um, so we
take all of our gong transcripts and we
dump them um into an agent called the
dealbot. And that dealbot then can do a
bunch of things. So the first thing we
had it do was uh lost a lost opportunity
review. So we had just finished Q2. we
had, you know, a list of our top losses
for the quarter sorted by deal size and
we ran it against that and uh it was
incredibly interesting. So the biggest
loss that quarter uh according to the
account executive was lost on price. And
when you ran the agent over every Slack
interaction, every email, every gong
call, it said actually you lost because
you never really got in touch with
economic buyer. And when you talked to
somebody about ROI and total cost of
ownership, it was clear from their
reaction that they didn't really buy
your math. And so really the reason we
lost was an inability to demonstrate
value. Um which you know upon reflection
I've got work to do to build out how we
quantify the value of versell uh which
actually is very easily quantifiable.
It's one of the things I love about
selling this product but we got to
codify that for the go to market team.
Um, so that was incredibly interesting
and now we run it against all of our
lost opportunities and actually do a
much better job of categorizing why it
was we really really lost and then
either feeding that back into the
engineering team or back into marketing
sales leadership on hey where are we
falling short in the sales process and
so that was awesome but then we're like
well it's not very fun to lose so why
don't we pull that forward and so we
went from lost bot to dealbot And now
the dealbot is running in real time and
we basically feed insights into Slack.
Versel is incredibly heavy users of
Slack. So we have a channel for every
single customer either opportunity or
existing one. And so now we're feeding
insights into that Slack channel which
is you know hey you're this far into the
sales process and you haven't talked to
an economic buyer. You should think
about that. or hey, you just got off
that call with an economic buyer. It
didn't sound like it went that that that
well. You know, here are some things to
consider and how you might follow up.
And uh last thing before I pause, the
other thing that's really interesting
and how we're we're using this too is,
you know, we are in this moment, right?
We're like I I have never seen an
iteration velocity like exists now in my
career. My 20 plus year career has all
been in tech. Um, and so for go to
market teams, that's really hard. If you
are launching something every other day,
the ability to be enabled on that is
actually quite challenging. And so this
uh bot agent um is now also letting us
where we're starting to go with it is
we'll release something. We'll do our
best to enable the team. Then we'll go
run the agent across uh calls,
interactions, and we'll diagnose where
we did a bad job of objection handling
where we're getting stuck. And then at
the end of the week, we can have a
huddle and say, "Okay, what are all the
places that our agent would suggest we
aren't selling effectively?" And then
almost like an engineering team, we'll
now run sprints, which is like those are
just bugs. They're bugs in your go to
market process, so you should not have
them. And you know, by the next week,
we're going to add content to our
objection handling to guide. We're going
to add content to a discovery guide.
We're going to figure out something we
need to change about our demo. So on and
so forth. So that's early. That's a
little bit of a preview. Um but but
that's where we're talking about taking
things right now within our our go to
market org.
>> Jean, you're blowing my mind in so many
ways. This just sounds so fun and just
like you guys are going to win is what
I'm feeling when I hear all this. Uh
incredible. What I love about this is
this AI tool, this agent you built sees
things that humans were not seeing. The
fact that you were surprised of just
like this is a completely different
conclusion is such a big deal. This is
the whole promise of the eye. is going
to do things we aren't even thinking
about or capable of. It is I we had a
really interesting one of the things
we're doing um aber so you know we have
an AI cloud so people use that to put AI
native features into their customerf
facing applications but they're also
using it to build internal applications
to improve productivity or outcomes and
we are talking to a very large airline
and that airline uh obviously gets tons
and tons of support queries so uh of
course they would want to go apply AI I
to hey how can we have AI answer these
so that our cost to support goes down
sort of the obvious thing but the more
interesting conversation was actually um
with uh one of the sea level executives
who said we also actually transcribe
every single one of those support calls
and so what I really want to know is why
are they calling and how do I make it so
that fewer people call the next week.
Um, and so again, this is now with AI,
you can rapidly go through all of that
content and actually be able to much
more quickly than having a human, you
know, in your CRM sort of pick some
status, why it was that folks were
calling the airline this week and and
what if anything you can do to make it
less the case next week.
>> I imagine many people hearing this are
like, I need one of these deal bots and
los bots. Uh, these are all internal
products that you all built.
>> Yes. Is there anything that you've
learned about making them this good? Any
tips you can share? Here's how to make a
really good bot for sales.
>> Yes. Um, so actually that's the second
half of my answer that I forgot to uh
forgot. That's perfect.
>> Which is sort of like build versus buy
calculus.
>> Um, so I think one of our learnings is
that it's not that hard to build these
agents and they aren't that expensive
either. So, you know, I mentioned with
the lead agent, um that was a six- week
process with one human, a third of his
time. Uh that dealbot, the Lostbot
version was like two days. Um like
basically we rifted on it. He had it 40
hours later. Um you know, now we're
continuing to refine it for for the
other things I mentioned. Um and and
what's also interesting about them is
they uh it's you know for better for
worse for Brcell but that uh that lead
agent which runs full stack on Verscell
will cost us about $1,000 to run for the
entire year. So if you remember I told
you we had 10 people in the SDR
function. So I'm I'm paying well over a
million dollars for that from a salary
perspective. I got that down to one and
then behind that I have a lead agent
that costs a thousand bucks. Um so
that's like a you know 90 plus%
reduction in total cost there. Um so and
you know there are a lot there's lots of
software for for agents on on um out
there right now. And I think one of the
things we're learning is because this
whole space is so nent, often your own
esoteric context, you know, your
content, your workflow is really key to
unlocking the power of the agent. And so
I think there's real value in
experimenting with your own internal
agent development. We may ultimately end
up on, you know, better integrated agent
platforms in the fullness of time. Um,
or we may find that the CIO increasingly
goes from a procurer of software to a
builder of software and you'll have an
AI AI internal platform with a thousand
agents running across your org. I'm not
really sure yet. Um, but I certainly
think um there's value in trying it
yourself because you may find that it's
meaningfully easier than you think. Um,
and you get returns pretty quickly. So
what I'm hearing here is that you're
finding that there are not tools out
there to plug and play. The alpha is
essentially in building your own stuff.
>> I think that's partially true. And I
think because you also have all these
tools proliferating right now, you get
into the perennial problem where you
wind up with 20 of them uh to do you
know the 20 jobs to be done basically
rather than an integrated platform
that's doing all of them. Uh I'm hearing
this a lot actually when I'm talking to
customers right now where their biggest
issue
uh in deploying AI is actually just
getting through procurement and it's
sort of because everyone's got an AI
mandate. You kind of have a blank check.
Uh I recently heard the term of instead
of ARR it's ERR which is experimental
run rate revenue which is to say you
know everyone's out there sort of hey
we're going to give this thing a go for
a year and then TBD on whether or not
you know we keep it but you know
basically you're having to procure 20
different things because most things are
getting off the ground and so you know
they're solving something relatively
narrow and that'll change in the
fullness of time but I do think there's
an opportunity to figure out hey where
do I likely have a more specific
workflow, you know, internally. For
that, it might be will worth worth
building your own agent and then maybe
for the things that are a little bit
more generalizable, you go get something
off the shelf.
>> Are there any platforms or tools you
want to shout out that allow you to
build these agents so quickly? I know
they sit on Versel. So, shout out
Versel, but just uh anything that you
point people to to like are these SDR
these GTM engineers, they're former
salespeople. Are they learning to code?
Are they bip coding these agents? How
does that
>> uh well the so our sales engineers all
have uh CS degrees so they they were
engineers um uh in a sales capacity so
they're writing code and actually these
agents they're building directly on
Verscell um so you get the AI gateway
that lets you you know call different
models um you have a sandbox if you're
running untrusted code you've got uh
workflows that let you build the process
you've got fluid compute which lets you
um really efficiently use compute when
you need it. Um so so we're just sort of
building it from the ground up um here
because again it's not that hard. Now
you do need to write code for that. Um
certainly there are a lot of vibe coding
tools out there that also give you more
um kind of workflow will build builders
that are somewhere between fully
wizzywig um almost like drag and drop um
and a little bit more more code forward.
Um, so you've got a bunch uh out there
along those lines. But, uh, you know, I
I do think we've sort of found like one
of one of the reasons actually the GTME
team at Verscell can build these agents
so easily is because the Verscell
platform is making it that easy to use
our, you know, framework defined
infrastructure and get that agent onto
into production very rapidly.
>> What a neat unfair advantage you all
have to do this.
>> Yes, it is. It is fun to like I mean I I
do think this company is better than any
I've seen at eating its own dog food. Um
and just everyone is constantly we say
Verscell builds Verscell with Verscell.
So you're just always looking for ways
to hey how can we use our product to go
do what we need to do and as a result
either understand then what a customer
would want or what's missing from our
product that we could go make better.
Along these lines, something that's
already come across a lot in the way
that you describe this stuff is I've
heard a lot about how you think about go
to market as a product. A lot of people
listening to this, as I've said, are
product builders. So, I think this is a
really uh nice way of thinking about go
to market. Uh I'm guessing you've
already talked about elements of this,
but just what's a way to think about go
to market as a product?
>> Yeah, I've always um so I had this
realization um probably a little over a
decade ago in my career. Um, so my first
job out of college was working on Gmail
in 2004. So Gmail launched on April 1st.
I joined on June 1st. And, uh, as I'm
sure you'll remember as well, Gmail was
this incredible innovation, uh, you
know, massive JavaScript application
that didn't really exist at the time.
And it had this gig of storage. It was a
full year before Yahoo Mail caught up
and even longer before Hotmail and
others did. Right? So that that was the
level of like technical differentiation
between you know Gmail and the next
best. And a decade later I you know you
had cloud uh computing enabling folks to
do stuff that you never would have been
able to do previously. And so I kind of
felt like huh like software is starting
to commoditize a little bit. Um and so
uh you know when when that happens when
technical differentiation kind of
narrows what are other things that will
differentiate you? Um and you know sort
of thinking outside of tech like we buy
a lot of things because of how we feel
about them. Um and so I started to
develop this thesis that um actually the
experience that you have of being sold
to will increasingly actually uh
differentiate a company and uh drive
buying decisions if uh products are are
only different at the margin. Uh and so
if if you believe that then you really
want to create a customer buying journey
that feels like very unique experiences.
And so we did a lot of this at Stripe
and now we're looking to replicate this
here. But an example of one of the
things I think we did really nicely at
Stripe was, you know, a lot of companies
sales sort of the first call after
you're qualified, you know, we've
decided you're wortha engaging in sales
process is discovery, which is basically
let me ask you a lot of questions to try
to under uncover pain, figure out where
buying power lies, etc. And so that is
kind of boring sometimes for a customer.
You're basically being quizzed um often
on the phone. Uh and so what we started
to do at Stripe was that first session
was a whiteboarding session and we would
actually get together and have you, you
know, draw your architecture um for
payments um and all the other things
that were under the hood to enable you
to take money and drive customer
outcomes. And through that we would
learn a ton about, you know, what was in
your stack, what we were going to have
to compete with, displace where value
lied. But the customer also learned a
lot themselves because in many cases
they'd never drawn their architecture
diagram. And so they left that meeting
with an asset and a sense of like wow
this is a really collaborative person
who's like deeply interested and helping
me like you know develop a mental model
for how to think about this um you know
and then we had other things that we we
would do. Um so uh that's sort of how I
think about building go to market like a
product is basically you need to go
through from the first time you become
aware that the company exists to again
that sort of five-year heavily retained
wall-to-all customer a set of
experiences and those experiences can
feel transactional flat boring or they
can feel very human personalized and
unique. Um, and so, you know, we try to
go map those out and figure out how do
you, you know, bring the product to
bear, make it really human. Um, and and
hopefully that, uh, creates a customer
for life in the end.
>> I love that whiteboarding example. Are
there any other examples of what you've
done to make it actually work really
well in this way?
>> Yeah. Another principle, we really
developed this um at Stripe 2 and I
brought it to to Verscell was just the
idea of adding value at any touch point
regardless of whether or not that
customer bought because even if
customers don't buy, you often find that
if you miss them on that buying cycle,
three or four years later when they're
in another buying cycle, they do come
back. you know, I was at Stripe for nine
years and so I saw the number of
customers that we lost and then half a
decade later here they are and they
bought. So, um uh that that was sort of
another one. So, you know, examples of
this that we're doing at Verscell is um
we uh you can there's great data on the
internet um that helps people understand
the performance of their website and how
fast uh your website is um actually
impacts SEO and SEO impacts AEO and
everybody's thinking about AEO right
now. Um, and so, you know, one of the
things we try to do when we reach out is
actually give folks insight immediately
into how they're performing on an
absolute basis, how they're performing
relative to peers. So, ideally, you
know, that piqus your interest and you
want to learn more from us. Um, but even
if it doesn't, you still have insights
that you may or may not have been aware
of um that maybe make you contemplate
whether or not you've got the optimal
setup.
>> Awesome. So what I'm hearing here is uh
when you say think of it like a product,
it's basically a product person thinks
about the experience of their product at
every step of the journey. Here's the
flow. Step 1 2 3 4 5. How do we make
every step awesome? Keep them going
along that journey. And so what you
think about is just from the prospect's
perspective, how do we make every step
of that journey awesome? Continue them
down that journey.
>> Yeah. Yeah. How do you make it be an
experience rather than a transaction
>> versus just like feel like sales coming
at you trying to sell you stuff? Yeah.
>> Okay. Uh staying along this track of
being staying tactical, uh I want to go
even further there. So what are just
some go to market tactics that you find
really effective these days for people
trying to just to be more successful in
getting people to pay attention to their
stuff to buy their stuff? Uh I mean one
I would sort of say uh dubtales with
where I just ended but is what are the
unique insights that you can bring to
bear um about your product or you know
how that that customer may be in a
suboptimal state. So I do think
investing in in data to tease that out
is is one thing. I think the other thing
this is is straightforward but often um
not done enough is like a lot of good
companies invest in docs um you know
good thing to do and but they they stop
there and particularly if you're selling
into a slightly larger company doing
things like um you know AWS calls it
well architected guides um or blueprints
uh a lot of customers particularly
larger ones really want to know the best
practice for how exactly to implement
your product in with their particular
setup. Uh, a great example of this, um,
this is from Stripe was, you know,
Stripe was excellent at marketplaces.
Most, you know, Lyft, Instacart, Door
Dash, they were all on Stripe. Um, and
so Stripe definitely knew the best way
to set up payments for a marketplace.
Because we'd seen them all. And so when
you then would go and sell a marketplace
and, you know, say, "Oh yeah, we've got
docs. Go check them out." They didn't
like that, right? Because they're like,
"Hey, every marketplace runs on Stripe.
I don't want to look at generic docs. I
want you to tell me what's the best way
to set up payments for a marketplace.
Um, and so I think that's another key
thing to be doing. Um, particularly as
you move past that sort of solo
developer, startup founder as
potentially a target uh, audience. Um,
and then I don't know this is a tactic
per se. Um, but I do think just a good
reminder for founders in particular who
um are still in that maybe founder-ledd
sales moment is just the value of really
good discovery. Uh I often find founders
are so in you know so excited about uh
talking about their product or you know
you ask one question and now they've got
a hook of like I can fix that for you.
But, uh, excellent salespeople
typically, uh, will talk well under half
the time in, uh, a conversation because
they're out asking questions, probing,
often helping a customer, uh, arrive at
conclusions on their own. And so,
learning how to, you know, do five W's,
go deep, rather than immediately going
into problemsolving mode. You know, if
they ask a question, you respond. often
if they ask a question, you should ask a
question about the question and then
respond, right? So learning to be great
at that I I think differentiates people.
>> So the last tip I think there something
a lot of I bet everyone could learn is
just listen more and talk less.
>> Yeah.
>> On that first piece of advice, this kind
of sharing unique insights and how
you're suboptimal. Is there an example
you could share of how you did that?
Maybe a story of just how you convince
someone you're selling striper versus
sell care. Something you you're missing.
Here's how this could help you become
much better. So with versell the um sort
of is giving an example but I'll make it
more specific. So um you know the
performance point you can go and look at
core web vitals um and so we can
actually see the different things um
within their site that are fast uh or
you know load correctly etc. So at that
we then so anyone can go look that up
but what we can do is actually then help
with benchmarking relative to peers. Um
so that's been um a big one that we've
gone out and done. The other one that
we've spent some good time on is just
around helping customers understand
uh MCP servers and when it would make
sense to use one. Um, so I think you
know those are all the rage but often
people don't know how to contemplate
them within their own product. So that
was uh another one that that we've gone
pretty deep on and then related to the
first one is um AEO answer engine
optimization uh is actually you know
somewhat tangential to Versell right so
we drive performance performance drives
SEO SEO is an input into AEO uh but we
have spent a ton of time um sharing
insights on AEO because we ourselves
focus deeply on it and think we
understand it better than many and so
again as part of just building a trusted
relationship ship. You know, folks may
go from those AMAs or that content um
into okay, great. You learn, you taught
me a lot and therefore I want Versel to
help me with performance. Um but in many
cases, they actually now are just like
this is a company that seems insightful.
It seems like one I can learn from and
now I'm going to pay a little bit more
attention to them and over the fullness
of time maybe, you know, they see
something that triggers them to decide
now's the time I want to go investigate
that aspect of Versell.
>> Awesome. So, what I'm hearing here in
many ways, and this resonates, I had
Jenna Ael on the podcast recently, and
it was all about sales skills and how to
sell. Nice.
>> And one of her tips is you don't want to
be focusing on here's the pain and
problem we're solving. And instead,
focus on here's how you will be better
than your competitors. Here's a big gap
and alpha that you can achieve if you
use say Versel. So, here's like you
you're missing out on speed and you're
going to get screwed in AO and all these
things. here's like how you can
architect your entire payments art
system to be top tier. Does that
resonate?
>> Yeah, it uh there's I I was told this
stat. It's round numbers so I can't
imagine it's entirely accurate but um
you know basically that um customers 80%
of customers buy to avoid pain or reduce
risk as opposed to the other one out of
five to increase upside which is a good
thing again for startup founders to
understand. So you know we all love to
talk about the art of the possible you
know uh everything we're going to enable
in the future. It's very exciting.
Everyone's visionaries, right? But, um,
that's often really a sale that's going
to resonate with another founder. Um,
and for everybody else, uh, you know, it
particularly enterprises, you're
avoiding the risk of not making your
revenue target next quarter, uh, the
risk of having comp, you know, being
outdone by the competition, the risk of
having brand damage, etc. And so it's
really hard actually for uh many
startups to make that pivot because it
it feels off-brand. But it does actually
drive more buying behavior is setting up
a little bit of that concern that either
I might not be well positioned or again
through good question asking I know
exactly where I'm not well positioned
and you can help me derisk that.
>> That is such an important stat you
shared. This has come up actually before
in this podcast that buying people are
buying in large part to reduce risk to
basically not hurt themselves in their
career not hurt the company like that's
a bigger factor in the buying decision
then I have this problem I need to solve
and okay thank you this solving and the
way April Dunford came on the podcast
and talked about this of just like like
it's such a massive career bet we are
going to bring in product X and it's
going to become like Stripe let's say
let's not talk about her cell but let's
say Stripe we're going to adopt Stripe
Right. That's like a huge decision. If
it doesn't go well, your career is hurt.
Your manager is going to be mad at you.
It's going to set your company back.
Yeah.
>> So, a lot of the buying decision, as
you've said, is I just don't want to
screw this up.
>> Right. Absolutely.
>> Okay. Along the line of tactics,
something that I know you're a big fan
of and uh help people think about is
segmentation.
>> Yes.
>> This is something a lot of founders
struggle with. They know, okay, I need
to figure out my segmentation strategy
and here we're going after. Can you just
kind of give us a primer on
segmentation? what people should know
about why this is important and how they
might approach this.
>> Yeah. So, segmentation is basically how
do you carve up the world of companies
that exist on the planet uh to reason
about them where they buy differently.
So, I'll give um I'll give examples from
from Stripe and Burcell to bring this
home. So, a very very typical company
segmentation is small, medium, large.
That's a rational way to do things. Uh
small, you often have a single decision
maker. Medium, you know, a small team
and large, it's complex, it's a
committee, etc. Um so the buying process
does change across SMB, mid-market,
enterprise. Um but if you stop there, uh
you are likely missing. Okay. But what
are the things within your offering that
also change the way something gets sold?
So at Stripe um there there were two
ways we further cut the business. Way
one was so think of segmentation as as a
graph. So x-axis was size um so small,
medium, large. Yaxis was growth
potential and that was important for
Stripe because it was a consumptionbased
business. So if you were going to grow
at 200% yearon-year, you were more
valuable to Stripe than if you were
going to grow at 8% year-on-year. And so
we wanted to spend more time, spend more
money um going after the 200% growers
than the 8%. So that was one that
informed your strategy on who you
targeted. And then for Stripe, the other
thing that we cut it was business model.
So are you a B2B? Are you B to C? Are
you B2B T2B? Eg a platform or B2B TOC eg
marketplace. And why is that relevant?
Well, if you're B2B, you are going to
need business payments, right? credit
card was useful for a PLG function, uh,
PLG sale, but you were going to need a
wires, etc. And you probably had a
recurring business, so you were going to
want Stripe billing. You know, if you
were B toC, that's consumer, so you're
going to want consumer payments. Apple
Pay is super important. If you were in
the like the platform or the
marketplace, you were going to buy our
connect product. Um, so it helped us
basically then craft uh a more targeted
and replicable sales or sell sort of
similar deal. So small, medium, large
buying uh complexity. We also do the
same thing on growth potential because
we are similarly a consumption based
business. But for us um a couple other
things on uh the x-axis we layer in uh
promote which is uh one of the things
that is observable is um traffic site
traffic on the internet. So Google
publishes a crux score which is
basically they have a bunch of data in
Chrome and so they know that Lenny's
site gets you know a millionx the amount
volume that Jean's site does.
>> Um and so um basically if you're a small
company but you have super high traffic
that's going to be more complex is going
to make more money and so we want to
promote you. So great example of this uh
would be OpenAI. Open AI I forget these
days how many uh employees it has. Let's
say it's 3,000. It's probably more than
that at this point, but so that's going
to put it in uh the mid-market at most
companies, but they're a top 25 traffic
site on the internet. So for us, that's
going to push them in our enterprise
because we need to go uh you know lean
in with a much uh you know a more
in-depth sales process. And then the
other thing we layer on is uh workload
type. So, if you are an e-commerce
company, that's going to be a very
different sale. We're going to have to
you actually use different language. You
talk about product uh listing pages and
product description pages and you've got
an order management system as the back
end. Super different from a crypto
company where, you know, you might be
running soup to nuts uh on AWS. And so,
again, that helps us start to then have
a really different uh buying content for
you. Okay, this is awesome. So,
essentially what you do is you break up
this universe going back to your
original story at Stripe into uh help
you sort essentially which companies are
most likely to buy your product and what
you're coming up with is these
attributes that are
>> y
>> uh correlated with they are likely to be
great potential customers.
>> Y
>> do you recommend using this uh xyaxis as
the approach versus something else like
a spreadsheet with like five columns
like I don't know how do you start?
there's probably something to be said
for X and Y like I do think size is
going to play into most buying decisions
and then these days there is a fair
amount of you know consumption um
happening so there'll be aspects of this
that I think are somewhat universal but
I think uh basically like when I came to
Burcell new product market product
offering for me it's a new market I had
a lot to learn but this is one of the
first things I did in the first 30 days
um and so basically I sat down uh with
the gentleman man Obby who leads data
science here and uh you know said okay
what what drives revenue so what are
what are the things that you can look at
xanty about a customer to know this
person's likely to pay us $100,000
versus a million those that's probably
going to be part of a segmentation
framework and then similarly okay uh
where can we how how what attributes
would we look for to cluster where we
seem to be winning repeatedly
And that was how we ultimately got at
okay crux rank is going to be super
important. Um because what you pay for
cell is correlated with your traffic.
And then workload type was super
important as well. Um so uh you know and
for for Brazelle when we did that it was
really interesting um because you know
we saw wow like we have a lot of
penetration and ecom not not that
surprising actually uh given that we you
know drive highly performant sites and
ecom having a super fast performance
site really matters um but you know at
the time if you looked at as an example
in enterprise SAS companies uh we didn't
have a lot penetration. Um, even though
you would have thought, okay, front-end
cloud, very developer oriented, of
course, software companies would be on
us. Um, but in enterprise, most of those
companies built that SAS offering before
Verscell existed. And so, you know,
migrating 200 or two million lines of
code, you know, to Verscell, that that's
a big lift, right? Um so it helped us
really understand where are we winning
where are we not you know and now uh as
an example like uh in within SAS
companies and enterprise we're actually
seeing a lot of interest in the AI cloud
because those are some of the earlier
adopters of hey let's add AI native
functionality to our existing SAS app.
Um and so again it helps us figure out
what to target where.
>> Okay so essentially you're doing kind of
this regression analysis on what's
working and then here's the attributes
that are most correlated with
>> success. Uh something I always recommend
when founders ask me for how do I figure
out my CP? How do I figure out where to
focus? I my heristic is just think of
three attributes that narrow them down.
So it's like series A company with
that's angelled that's a marketplace
something like that. I feel like a good
like just rule of thumb just to start.
>> I think like beyond three I like you
know that's getting pretty detailed and
reasonably speaking you're not going to
cut like you have five sellers so you're
going to put one seller in five
different segments. So I I do think
three is something you can reason about.
The other thing I'll say on this topic
that I think is really important is a
lot of times folks think segmentation is
a go to market thing. I really think
it's a company thing. So when you join
Verscell um I actually deliver and every
new hire's first week one of our company
values is KYC know your customer. Um and
I deliver the KYC SE section. um and uh
you know talk through our segmentation
framework how our customer base maps
into those segments because it's really
important as you know those new product
managers leave the room that when
they're building something they think to
themselves okay I'm building a new
back-end product who is this targeted at
is it targeted at an enterprise or um or
a startup um you know basically do I
have a point of view on where I'm trying
to win and why um and if you're doing
that out of the gates then it's much
much easier to then speak the same
language with the go to market org and
figure out okay how are we going to take
that to market in line with the other
motions that we we have in play.
>> Okay, this is a great segue to uh
there's a couple other things I want to
talk about. One is something I've heard
from so many people you've worked with
is that you are amazing at building a go
to market org that works really well
with product and engineering. So I'll
read this quote from your former
colleague Kate Jensen. She said that
your superpower is building a sales or
that doesn't feel like a sales or to
engineers. So the question she suggested
asked just like what does it take to do
that? What are the ingredients to
building a sales or that engineers and
product teams really like working with?
>> The litmus test I have always given my
sales team is if you are an account
executive in my org and I put you in
front of 10 engineers at our company. It
should take them 10 minutes to figure
out you aren't a product manager. And
what I'm trying to get across is you
need to have incredible product depth.
And uh the reason for that is twofold.
One, it gives you credibility with the
product and engineering org. And two, I
also believe that the best go to market
orgs on the planet are equal parts
revenue driving and R&D.
And the reason I emphasize the latter is
if you think about a product management
organization, you know, you may have a
UXR team, you know, out doing research.
Product managers certainly should be out
talking to customers. Well, if I have a
20 person sales team, think of the
number of customers that we talk to in a
week. And so, if we can do an excellent
job of translating all of that, uh,
feedback into signal and then feeding
that into the road map, um, you know, we
can be actually an extension of the
product management org. Um, but that
takes being really good at discerning
signal from noise, understanding when
something is an objection that should be
overcome versus a, you know, a a market
an opportunity in the market. So, uh, I
think I think those things have helped.
>> I just love this as a product manager,
maybe former product manager. I don't
know what the hell I am these days. Uh,
I just love the idea of the salesperson
like you not knowing the difference
between a product manager and a
salesperson. The most classic challenge
is sales orgs ask for all these
features. Yes. NPMs are constantly
having to push back and think about does
this fit into everything. So it feels
like that's a big part of this is to
understand that deeply.
>> Yeah. You want a sales uh you want a
sales org that can think like a general
manager. So you know that's not just
trying to get deals done but is trying
to help build a business. And so again,
knows when to say no, knows when to
objection handle versus knows, hey, I've
actually heard this on the last three
calls. And I I do think this would be a
really big unlock that would make us
more competitive, you know, would be
something that new that nobody's doing.
So, um, you know, I think that takes
looking for a profile that both has
sales skills, but also is going to think
with, you know, that product mindset.
>> I love that. Okay, so another quote uh
from Claire Hughes Johnson, former
podcast guest, amazing sales leader. I
worked with you at Stripe. She said
something along these lines, but a
little different. That Gina is probably
the best go to market person at
connecting with product and engineering,
deeply understanding the product and
providing the most valuable input to her
counterparts of any I've ever seen.
[snorts] It sounds like just another
ingredient here is just sales feeling
like a real partner to product
engineering. actually not just being
like, "Hey, do these things for me," but
actually feeling like a partner.
>> You know, ultimately
company strategy is is basically product
strategy meets go to market strategy,
right? Um, and so I spend, I guess, as a
goto market leader, I'm constantly
trying to figure out, you know, how do I
make more money more efficiently? And
you typically do that by having a
winning product in the market that is
well commercialized. And so that means
that I I really lean into thinking about
product strategy and thinking about
pricing strategy. Um because if those
two things are optimal, you're you know,
you're going to win more often and
there'll be less friction um in it. Um,
and so that's sort of where you got to
put as a revenue leader like a GM hat
on. Um, and not just think how do I
sell, but actually how do I how do I
enable the the insights I'm getting from
talking to customers constantly to have
the company strategy be more effective.
Speaking of product, going in a slightly
different direction. PLG productle
growth was it felt like it was very hot
for a while where everyone's like you
got to go PLG. That's the only way to
win now. It's impossible to do sales.
There's no uh the future is PLG. It
feels like that's gone away in in large
part. Obviously still companies grow
through PLG and work through PLG. What's
just kind of your thoughts on PLG and
when does it make sense for a company
these days to actually think this is how
they will grow for a while? I I think a
lot PLG is makes sense for a lot of
companies at the outset unless you are
very explicitly building a product for
enterprise. Um so Sierra as an example,
right? Like they are very clearly going
after global 2000 or you know some
something close to that. So PLG is not
going to be overly useful to them
because they are trying to win eight
figure deals from day one. But for a lot
of products um folks are targeting a
startup audience at the outset and then
they're adding more functionality so
that they can ultimately continue to
scale up market. So I think PLG is still
super relevant. It's a it's a major
driver of Versell's growth. It was a big
driver of of Stripe's growth. The thing
that folks get wrong is um it does
typically have a ceiling. So people are
generally not going to, you know, go
give a give you a million dollars via
self-s served flow. So at some point,
um, if you want to sustain growth rates,
you're going to have to have your deal
sizes get bigger and bigger. And where I
I think folks get stuck is uh waiting
too long on PLG because it does take a
while to build a replicable sales
process and a sales process which often
you're getting fed by inbound at the
beginning and then you got to add
outbound. It takes a while actually to
turn outbound into a predictable engine.
So I think where you see companies hit
walls is just when they don't add the
sales portion of it soon enough. So
essentially every company ends up having
to build a sales org. Some start
productled and then at sales. Some just
start sales and and and have it from the
beginning.
>> Yeah, I would I would agree. There are
um you know there are probably some good
examples of like large vertical SAS
platforms that are are SMB but even they
wind up with like a you know velocity
sales team. So um yeah I don't I don't
know that I can think of like a hundred
billion dollar company that's PLG only.
Yeah, like it just feels like a big like
you're losing you're leaving money on
the table even if you are growing really
fast. I know Lastian was a long time PLG
company but uh but eventually uh to calm
down I don't know if that's the right
way to put it. Okay. Um you mentioned
pricing. I know you have strong opinions
on pricing and pricing strategy. What's
just like a couple tips you might share
with someone thinking about how to price
their product?
>> Uh yeah. So I uh this kind of the theme
but uh I think the first thing is like
you got to think about pricing like a
product. Um so it's another one where um
it it actually really matters how you
choose to price a product. Um do you
really understand where customers are
going to drive value? Do you really
understand where you incur costs? and
are you doing a smart job of aligning
those things? You know, you've got lots
of examples of companies grossly
underpricing um because you're sort of
afraid to charge for the value that you
actually provide. I think there are a
lot of examples where people default to
including a premium strategy without
that actually being a strategy. Uh like
a good example at Stripe, we launched
Stripe billing years ago. um it had a
premium strategy because that's what you
do and then we sort of looked at it and
we're like you know actually integrating
straight building takes a little bit of
work. So if you do that you're probably
going to stay and so we killed that
killed that uh killed the free trial to
zero downside. Uh so you know that's
that's another one. Um, at Verscell,
we've been going through that transition
where, you know, we're a
consumption-based uh business model
ultimately, but for at the outset, we
basically kind of bundled that into what
looked like a SAS-like price. And, you
know, as we've added a lot more
functionality, that that wasn't working
anymore. Um, and so we did an
unbundling. Um, and right now actually
we we did a pretty substantial pricing
change in in August where we have an
enterprise at a pro skew. And if you
looked at the enterprise skew, it's
called enterprise for a reason.
Enterprise
and actually um about half of the folks
on the enterprise skew were startups,
which suggests that there's stuff in the
enterprise skew that a startup really
wants. So we kicked a lot of that stuff
out of the enterprise skew and made it
so you could buy it self-s serve online
and what do you know people are so you
know so now that's like really driven a
lot of growth in our PLG funnel which is
awesome for startups because it let it's
super efficient they they can just buy
things they want that it's awesome for
us because you don't have to have a
human intermediate that so you know
getting all of these knobs really tuned
uh is a a key to both a great customer
experience and optimal revenue outcomes.
S maybe just one more question before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round. It's going to be a combo
question. Uh I hear you have a hot take
on kind of sales comp, how to comp sales
people that's different from other
people and also who to hire when you're
hiring folks in sales. Can you just talk
about your takes there?
>> I struggle with sales comp because um uh
you know it's all about pay for
performance which I'm obviously uh a fan
of. Um but it is um it makes your
organization less flexible because you
basically have to decide 12 months in
advance these are things I value. Um and
particularly in this moment that could
be different. Um as a great example of
this uh when you know we wrote the sales
plans for this year at Verscell the AI
cloud did not exist. we were selling our
front-end cloud and we were selling
vzero and you know introduce the AI
cloud halfway through the year. Now we
had all sorts of good ways to still
incentivize that. Um but um you know I I
think um you want to be able to be
innovative and pivot and um you know
when you have a well-designed sales plan
um uh or you know a very structured
sales plan that that can be challenging.
So that's that's a little bit of of my
hot take is just I'm trying to figure
out how do you have the upside of sales
of you know motivates people. It's a
quantitative function which is great but
also the flexibility to change your mind
because I think a lot of companies right
now are having a hard time doing annual
planning. So so that's one. Um on
profiles I have always valued what just
sort of a diversified portfolio. Um, so
I I strongly believe that sales is a
skill and so you want sales people with
actual sales experience in your
organization, but I think there's value
in pairing them with um more
non-traditional backgrounds, in
particular a consulting or a banking um,
you know, background. Those folks are
really good at uh, you know, more
quantitative and analytical aspects of
sales. So getting into that
consultative, you know, part which I
think we talked about at the at the
outset. Um, and so I find that when you
mix these together, uh, the sort of, you
know, consultant banker profile
realizes, oh, wait a minute, sales is a
skill and I didn't really have it. Um,
and so they go learn from, you know,
your, uh, your account executives with
that background. And then your AES learn
more about, okay, how do I think about a
P&L? how can I talk to a CFO? You know,
how do I present a TCO analysis more
effectively? Um, and so just creates a
much richer learning environment where
people are bouncing ideas off each
other.
>> That is awesome. I love that strategy.
Okay, final question. Just is there
anything else you wanted to share?
Anything else you want to leave
listeners with before we get to our very
exciting lightning round?
>> Oh man. Um, I feel like we've been very
thorough.
>> I think so, too.
>> Yeah, I'm going to You stumped me on
that one.
>> Okay, that's the goal. With that, Gan,
we reached our very exciting lightning
round. I'm going to make it very quick
because I know you got to run. Uh, I'm
gonna ask you just two questions.
>> Okay.
>> One is uh I'm gonna skip to your life
motto. Do you have a favorite life motto
that you often come back to find useful
in work or in life?
>> I do. Um I I actually have found that
I'm known for saying a handful of things
um that I didn't necessarily realize it,
but when you leave an organization,
people tend to, you know, tell you what
stuck with them. But there is one that I
think I'm I'm known for saying growing
up. My mom always said to me, when the
going gets tough, the tough get going.
And um I, you know, in sales, you're
always going to have a quarter when
you're not on pace. And so that's one
that I feel like I pull on um not
infrequently because uh you know there's
in my view there's another another
version of this my mom also would always
says was where there's a will there's a
way. So you know I think you can always
choose to find a path forward even when
that's not uh super clear.
>> I love these. Okay last question. Uh, I
read that you were a very competitive
diver in college early on. Uh, I'm just
curious if there's something you learned
from that experience that you brought
with you that helps you be as successful
as you've become.
>> Um, well, I mean, first of all, I should
say I was I was uh generally coming in
like third place out of three on my
team. So, um, you know, I I managed
managed to to do it in college, but uh,
that that was the extent of that career.
Um so I do think so diving is a
precision sport and it is a repetitive
sport and it is also a sport where uh
when you land flat on your back and
literally as you are swimming to the
side of the pool like welts are forbing
on it you uh always 100% of the time
will be forced to immediately get back
on the diving board and do that exact
same dive again. And so I think that has
a lot of stuff that's transferable. um
to to work and to sales. So, you know,
for me, I I just have an obsession with
excellence and within sales, sales is
about replicability. How do you drive
predictable outcomes? Um you know, how
excellent are you at your ability to
forecast? Um and so I think I bring that
to bear within sales a lot. Um and then
similarly, like you get a lot of nos in
sales. Um, and so, you know, I another
phrase that a sales guru said to me once
uh or in a training was yeses are great,
nos are great, may will kill you. And
so, how do you get really comfortable
that no is a great thing? And that just
gave you data and now you can go do
something with it.
>> This is a really uh inspiring and uh
empowering way to end the conversation.
Jean, thank you so much for being here.
>> Thanks so much for having me, Lenny. It
was a lot of fun.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.